project: extensibility documentation (#1320)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/console/console-extensibility/locations.md

---
id: locations
title: Extensible Locations
sidebar_label: Extensible Locations
---

# Extensible Locations

> The Console allows to embed extensions at specific locations that already have menu items and groups that can also be used by our extensions. These locations are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Console allows us to embed extensions at specific locations that already contain menu items and groups, which can also be used by our extensions. These locations are:
```

- **Tenant** with locationId `tenant`
- **Project** with locationId `project`
- **Runtime** with locationId `runtime`

## Tenant

> <div style={{display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center'}}>

Author: these image about locations are very small and i should find a way to improve their presentation

- **EXTENSIBILITY GROUP** (parentId: `extensibility`)

## Project

<div style={{display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center'}}>
  <div style={{display: 'flex', width: '500px'}}> 

![project location](./images/projectLocation.png)
  
  </div>
</div>

This location is found on sections related to the Project overview on the URLs with prefix `/projects/:projectId` that represent the location path. As visible from the image, the sidebar already contains menu groups that can be used via parentId:

- GENERAL GROUP (parentId: `general`)
- ADMINISTRATION GROUP (parentId: `administration`)
- RUNTIME GROUP (parentId: `runtime`)
- ACCESS MANAGEMENT GROUP (parentId: `access-management`)

## Runtime

<div style={{display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center'}}>
  <div style={{display: 'flex', width: '500px'}}> 

![runtime location](./images/runtimeLocation.png)
  
  </div>
</div>

This location is found on the Runtime section of a Project on the URLs with prefix `/projects/:projectId/monitoring/environments/:envId` that represent the location path. As visible from the image, the sidebar already contains menu groups that can be used via parentId:

- WORKLOADS GROUP (parentId: `workloads`)

:::warning

> Extensions routes placed in a specific location are visible only if the extension is activated in a context that includes that location. For this reason, an extension activated on the Project context cannot be seen if its routes are located on the `Tenant` location.

Reviewer: It could be useful to prevent this type of inconsistency by blocking malformed activations via API

:::

> <!-- TODO: Should be added some mentions about the order of menu items? -->

Reviewer 2: when you are talking about the route fields add the order info and briefly say how they work (0 brings to the top)

> <!-- TODO: Should be added some mentions about the order of menu items? -->

Reviewer: TODO?

Author: there are other opened comments about it
